---
layout: post
title: Laravel
categories:
- laravel
tags:
- fullstack
- laravel
- php
---
> Laravel is a web application framework with expressive, elegant syntax. We’ve already laid the foundation — freeing you to create without sweating the small things.

I never had experimented with [Laravel](https://laravel.com/) before. I was so biased by a bad experience working with a PHP application in the past, that I just dismissed it. But I decided to give it a try, and I'm so glad I did.

[Aaron Francis](https://aaronfrancis.com/)'s videos on Laravel got me interested - if this person can keep pushing for PHP and Laravel despite all of the hate on the interent then it must be good. And then I watched an interview with [Taylor Otwell](https://github.com/taylorotwell) on [tomorrow.fm](https://tomorrow.fm). Boy was I hooked when Taylor said, "if you want to sit down as one person and build an honest to God product that you can _ship_, it just feels a lot faster."

Laravel comes with first-party support for authentication and authorization via Laravel Breeze. This was such a shift for me. I started with Rails and using Devise was _fine_, but still felt harder than it needed to. Moving into the JS ecosystem, NextAuth was the closest to I found to a ready to go authentication solution. I found myself using social authentication to avoid needing to manage the tables and details myself. Laravel Breeze's implementation of authentication is incredible. The minimum models needed are provided, but are easily expanded based on what your application needs. This fits PERFECTLY with the idea of the one person team.

I created [onetimething](https://onetimething.custompro98.club) as my first foray into building a Laravel application. I felt a bit slower while building, given I don't know the ecosystem, but when I "finished" I didn't feel bogged down in the solved problems and instead had spent more time on what the app should look or feel like. Disclaimer: I am still very much so working on my styling ability.

That's all I have for today, this was a catch-up post from a couple of weeks of learning. Next up, I'll talk through how I deployed onetimething as a way to document my steps for future reference. I hope to write more often now that I'm playing around with these other tools.
